---
layout: post
title: A summer to mentor
author: Dave Hunt
date: 2016-07-27 09:59:33 +0100
categories: mozilla
tags: mentoring
---
This summer I am mentoring [Justin Potts](http://justinpotts.co/) – a university
intern working on improving Mozilla’s add-ons related test automation, and [Ana
Ribeiro](https://anaplusplus.com/) – an
[Outreachy](https://outreachy.gnome.org/) participant working on enhancing the
[pytest-html](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-html) plugin.

It’s not my first time working with Justin, who has been a regular team
contributor for a few years now, and last summer helped me to get the
[pytest-selenium](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-selenium) plugin
released. It certainly helped to have previous experience working with Justin
when deciding to take on the official role as mentor for his first internship.
Unfortunately, his project is rather difficult to define, as he’s been working
on a number of things, though mostly they are related to Firefox add-ons and
running automated tests. There’s no shortage of challenging tasks for Justin to
work on, and he’s taking them on with the enthusiasm that I expected he would.
You can read more about Justin’s internship [on his
blog](https://garblemasher.com/).

Ana’s project grew out of a security exploit discovered in
[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/), which led to the introduction of the
`Content-Security-Policy`  header for static files being served. This meant that
the fancy HTML reports generated by
[pytest-html](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-html) were broken due to the
use of JavaScript, inline CSS, and inline images. Along with a few other
enhancements, providing a CSP friendly from the plugin became a perfect
candidate project for Outreachy. As part of her application, Ana contributed a
patch for [pytest-variables](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-variables),
and I was impressed with her level of communication over the patch. To get Ana
familiar with the plugin, her initial contributions were not related to the CSP
issue, but she’s now making good progress on this. You can read more about Ana’s
Outreachy project [on her dedicated blog](http://outreachy.anaplusplus.com/).

So far I have mostly enjoyed the experience of being a mentor – it especially
feels great to see the results that Justin and Ana are producing. Probably the
most challenging aspect for me is being remote – Justin is based in Mountain
View, California, and Ana is based in Brazil. It’s hard to feel a connection
when you’re dependent on instant messages and video conferencing, though I
suspect it’s probably harder for them than it is for me. Fortunately, I did get
to work with them a little in London during the all hands, and then some more
with Ana in Freiburg during the [pytest
sprint](http://blargon7.com/2016/06/sprinting-with-pytest-in-freiburg/).

There are still a few weeks left for their projects, and I’m hoping they’ll both
be able to conclude them to their satisfaction!
